So what we're going to do now is we're going to launch an instance and we're going to give it a configuration.
We have some EBS volumes.
So we're going to just going to choose the general purpose t2 micro.
We're going to click.
Next I'm going to leave the defaults.
And then we get to add storage.
So as we can see the default here is that we have a volume.
It's got a device mapping to xvdc and we can see a snapshot idea.
So when you use an AMI the AMI is essentially a snapshot.
So it's a snapshot with a block device mapping that configures the configuration parameters for the
disk drive and the data from the AMI is then part of your desk as it is provisioned.
So the default size here is 8 gigabytes and then we have the default volume type as general purpose
versus day.
So here we can change it and remember the old magnetic is still here.
Not really used very much these days.
So we can choose general purpose SSD and it gives us side default hundred IOPS with a burst ability
of up to 3000 and delete on termination is actually enabled here.
So this is a key thing to remember when you terminate your EC2 instances your EBS volume will also
be deleted.
So any data that's on that volume is going to be destroyed and there's no way of recovering it unless
you've taken a snapshot.
You won't be out to find it again.
So that's gone.
Now that's different so when you add a volume which we'll see in a minute.
The other thing you can do now is enable encryption.
You didn't used to be able to do this but now you can.
So you'd be able to select a KMS Key for encryption and the disk will be encrypted.
So I'm just gonna take that out for now.
So let's have a new volume and we can see the only option here is EBS you can't add an instance store
volume and it automatically just takes the next available device mapping here on this list which is
sdb you could then search for a snapshot.
We're just gonna leave that blank and we're going to leave general purpose SSD as well.
We could choose provisioned IOPS and really it would just be a performance difference.
So I don't need that for this lab but you could just choose that if you wanted to so notice a difference
had the delete on termination is enabled for the volume but it's not enabled for any additional volumes
this is a key exam question sometimes you'll find something come up where it mentions that an
instance has been terminated it had a volume and it had a couple of additional volumes added to it you
know what data is going to be accessible and you know that the additional volumes by default will be
available because they're not gonna be deleted.
So let's go forward and we're just going to launch this instance
so we have our instance running now and we can see down here the block device mapping so what devices
are actually attached to this instance.
So we have our root device and our additional volume and then you can see some additional information
about EBS down here at Elastic block store.
So we have volume snapshots and lifecycle manager.
So the gains and volumes we can see our route volume and we know this is the route volume because we
can see the snapshot I.D. here which is the AMI that it was created from there both in ap-southeast-2a and
this is our additional volume.
So this is the extra EBS volume that was attached.
If you go into actions you can do a few things you can create a snapshot you can attach volumes if they're
unattached you can delete them again if they're unattached you can detach a volume you can force it
to be detached you can change the auto enabled Io setting and so on.
Let's just have a quick look at modify volume.
So in here you can actually on the fly change to a different volume type and adjust the size and just
click modify and that will just go and change that volume type and provision the extra storage.
Now that doesn't mean that your operating system will see the extra space you have to check to see whether
your operating system is using that space or you might need to extend your file system or your partition
to be able to access that extra storage space.
So that's a couple of things we can do there.
What I want to do now is let's go back and we're going to get the public IP address of the instance
and I'm going to SSA age into this instance
and what we're going to do is we're going to run thelsblk command and with this we can see the
root device which has a partition and that's mounted to / that's the root file system.
We then have the xdb device which is a disk but it doesn't show a file system and we can run the
command sudo fs s to switch to it and then we can do file -s -dev and then the device
name and it doesn't show any more information than this it just as data and that means that there isn't
a file system created for this.
So what we can do now is we can run mkfs for make file system -T.
We give it the file system type xfs and then again we type dev xdv and if we rerun the previous
command we can now see that we have an xfs file system so the next thing to do is actually to mount
this file system.
So we do sudo
mkdir
We don't need selects.
We are already running as the root so we can do mkdir /data and then I'm going to mount
the device.
So cd to the directory so that's now mounted to the Mount point and we can change to /data
and whatever data we write in here is going to go straight to that file system the additional volume
so we can just touch a text test file and you know just add a couple of test files in here just for
the fun of it that we can then see this data when we change to a different instance.
So we just run it.
We just saved a couple of empty files here
and what we're gonna do now is we're just going to go back to the console and we're going to come down
to volumes and we're going to take a couple of snapshots so.
So this one is the additional volume.
So this is the we create a snapshot and I'm going to call this data volume
and that should be almost instantaneous because there's there's pretty much no data on that say we can
see it going on.
It's taken a few seconds.
So now let's come back and let's take a snapshot of the root volume.
So this one I'm just going to call root volume
and if you come down to snapshots again we can see that these are both pending so I had to wait a couple
of minutes for those but now they've completed.
And so what we're gonna do is actually you can just terminate this instance because we're finished with
this one for now and I'm just going to go terminate
and now it's terminated.
Let's go back to volumes and we can just see one volume because remember the delete on termination actually
wasn't enabled for the additional volume as it was for the root volume.
So the root volume was deleted and the additional volume is still here.
And if we go to snapshots these are still here so we've got our volume and our data volume as a backup
which we could then use to restore and and create a new instance from and we're gonna do that later
on in this section.
So for now that said we've terminated that instance and in the next lab we're then going to create a
new instance and attach the data volume to that instance.